docs(seqera-ai): add Projects page for Enterprise (#1346)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_docs/seqera-ai/projects.md

---
title: "Projects"
description: "Organize workspace resources into projects using Seqera Platform labels"
date: "2026-04-22"
tags: [seqera-ai, projects, labels]
---

:::caution Seqera AI is in beta
Seqera AI is currently in beta. Features and behavior may change as we continue to improve the product.
:::

> Projects in Seqera AI group the pipelines, datasets, and workflow runs that belong to a single piece of work, so you can view and chat about them without the noise of the rest of the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects in Seqera AI group the pipelines, datasets, and workflow runs that belong to a single piece of work. You can view and chat about them without the noise of the rest of the workspace.
```

Projects are not created inside Seqera AI. They are derived from **workspace labels in Seqera Platform** whose names start with `project_`. Each matching label surfaces in Seqera AI as a separate project scope, with the Platform label acting as the source of truth for membership.

:::note

> Projects are part of the Seqera AI **portal web interface**. The portal must be deployed alongside Seqera AI in your Enterprise installation — see [Install Seqera AI](../enterprise/install-seqera-ai.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Projects are part of the Seqera AI **portal web interface**. The portal must be deployed alongside Seqera AI in your Enterprise installation. See [Install Seqera AI](../enterprise/install-seqera-ai.md) for more information.
```

:::

## How projects are derived

When you open a workspace in the Seqera AI portal web interface:

1. Seqera AI reads the list of workspace labels from the Seqera Platform API.
2. Any label whose name starts with `project_` becomes a project.

> 3. An **Entire workspace** view is always included alongside your projects so you can see every resource in the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. An **Entire workspace** view is included alongside your projects. You can see every resource in the workspace.
```

4. Pipelines, datasets, and workflow runs are scoped to a project by matching on its `project_*` label.

> Because membership lives on the Platform label, adding or removing a resource from a project is the same action as applying or removing the label in Platform.
> 
> ## Create a project
> 
> 1. In **Seqera Platform**, open the workspace where the project should live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a project

To create a project:

1. In **Seqera Platform**, open the workspace where the project should live.
```
